# Composite Forming Modelling using Artificial Intelligence

## Data-driven Formability Assessment Based on Convolutional Neural Networks

### Master thesis
### Elias Mehssatou • Vrije Universiteit Brussel & Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium


This repository contains all the scripts necessary for the reproductability of the work.

**Abstract**

Lightweighting is becoming a critical design strategy in the automotive field to decrease vehicle en-
ergy consumption. Composite materials such as carbon-fibre reinforced thermoplastics exhibiting
remarkable mechanical properties in parallel with low densities are thus gaining strong interest in
the industry. Nevertheless, composite forming, or the production of the final part starting from an
initially flat composite pre-product, may substantially alter the structural behaviour of the composite
part. Consequently, modelling the inherently complex material behaviour during composite forming
is crucial to assess formability prior to manufacturing. For an integrated development of composite
components, time-efficient and accurate forming simulation methods are in high demand. The present
research implements the use of finite element simulations data in a novel convolutional neural network
hourglass architecture, which gives rise to a physically accurate and time-efficient data-driven method
for composite forming predictions. The underlying high-fidelity data was generated by parametrized
mechanics-based models. After training and optimization, the network proved to be capable of accu-
rately represent complex material behaviour during forming and handle benchmark mould geometries
with relative ease. Further analyses revealed that the scarcity and quality of the data can have a
significant impact on the prediction accuracy and must be considered accordingly. In addition, the
versatility of the network makes the data-driven approach applicable to multi-layered composites and
can be extended to various quantities of interest during forming. Finally, the approach enables an
effective design improvement that was demonstrated on an integrated example. The potential of
data-driven methods is tremendous. Further advances in high-fidelity simulation, or experimental
data, will now contribute to ever-improving data-driven approaches.
